# Probabilistic Robotics Playground: 2D Mobile Robot Simulation Environment
> **Developed by Ivy Mahncke**
> 
> **Contributors:** Dominic Salmieri, Victoria Preston
## Repository Overview and Vision
This repository is meant to be a starting point for creativity and self-guided learning for the _Probabilistic Robotics_ course at Olin College of Engineering, providing an initial skeleton for a mobile robot simulation environment. Assignments throughout the course will revisit this simulator: building out more of its capabilities, utilizing it to investigate particular algorithms and methods, and providing a start for deep dive projects that push the class materials even further.

## File Structure
```bash
├── src/
│   ├── simulator.py
│   ├── environment.py
│   ├── robot.py
│   ├── sensors.py
│   ├── viz.py
│   ├── utils.py
├── input/
├── output/
├── requirements.txt
├── README.md
```

`src` houses the source code for this project. Here's a quick descriptor of the contents:
- `simulator.py`: the primary runnable file of the project: unpacks input files, runs the simulator, and logs the resultant dataset
- `environment.py`: the simulated environment; contains modular landscape features and motion kinematics
- `robot.py`: the simulated robot; executes motion commands and logs sensor data
- `sensors.py`: sensor models that noisily sample the environment
- `viz.py`: tools for visualizing the dataset
- `utils.py`: tools for structuring common data

`input` houses example input files; particularly a config file and a commands file. there are two example files present:
- `config_example.yaml`: used to configure the environment and sensor noise models
- `vel_cmd_example.csv`: a list of linear and angular velocity commands to execute

`output` houses output generated by the simulator. When run, the following files are created:
- `dataset_viz.png`: the simplest and clearest way to understand the simulator. A visualization of the environment overlaid with three robot trajectories: ground truth, odometry/dead reckoning, and GPS estimates.
- `env_info.pkl`: static environment data, including universal timestep size, bounds, obstacle dimensions, and landmark locations.
- `sensor_info.pkl`: static sensor data containing a list of sensors and the constants used to define the standard deviation of their respective Gaussian noise models.
- `groundtruth_log.pkl`: ground truth robot poses and states.
- `sensor_log.pkl`: the resultant noisy dataset from sensor samples.

## How to Use This Repository
Please fork your own copy of this repo into your own github account, and then clone that repository onto your local development machine. You will be building your own simulators throughout the course of this assignment, and will submit a link to specific branches of your cloned repository for assignment submissions.

There are two branches on this repo:
- `main`: a fully implemented simulator. Use this to run examples, or as reference code if you get stuck while building your own!
- `week1`: skeleton code for you to use as a starting point for building your own simulator.

## Running a Minimal Example
A minimal example of a 2D mobile robot moving in an obstacle-laden environment is implemented in this repository for your reference. To run this example, first clone this repository:

`git@github.com:probrobo26/probo_playground.git`

`cd probo_playground`

Then type in your terminal:

`python3 src/simulator.py`

The output dataset will be visualized in the following file:

`output/dataset_viz.png`

To generate an animated GIF of the robot trajectories, type the following in your terminal:

`python3 src/simulator.py --viz_only --animate`
